{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14760\viewh11800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 8/12/11 @ 16:55 DC\
Targets: Variable, Instruction, Biolume, Simulator\
-Biolumes now step in random order instead of sequentially through the grid.\
-Added LABEL and JUMP instructions with corresponding underlying structure. \
-Removed RESET instruction because LABEL-JUMP can take care of resetting now.\
-Added IF_LO_ENERGY (< MAX_ENERGY/2) and IF_HI_ENERGY (>= MAX_ENERGY/2) instructions. \
-ADDED IF_N_TOUCH/MOTION/SOUND/CO2 instructions. \
-Changed the duration of sensors to be the max size of the genome. \
-This version now contains all reasonable suggestions presented by the Biolume committee and will be declared stable. Now we will move onto a "code cleansing" stage where functions are optimized, generalized and fully documented (to be known as version 1.0).  \
\
8/11/11 @ 06:21 DC\
Targets: Instruction, Variable, Biolume, Simulator, media file\
-Reward for normal sound is now 0. I left the structure in for giving a reward if we want to, but currently the system is set to reward for sound if and only if the sound is new (i.e., it wasn't heard in the last step). \
-Added RESTART button which restarts a simulation with a new set of randomly generated Biolumes.\
-Added DEENERGIZE button which clears out all energies in the system.\
-I also clear energy when switching from global pressures to interactive pressures, just to keep them separate. \
-Previously, I placed the code that rewarded for hearing intra-sound within the display() function. This did not seem fitting since display should just display. Also, this brought about the side effect that even while paused, the system had to 'display' resulting in the accruing of energy during pauses, which is clearly a bug. I moved the rewarding for hearing intra-Biolume sounds into the Biolume step function which is more appropriate and correct. To do this I had to add a speaker_on flag to the Biolume as well. \
\
8/11/11 @ 09:26 DC\
Targets: Instruction, Biolume, Simulator\
-The first instruction of every organism's lifetime was never executed because the PC was incremented before they could be executed. This bug has been fixed.\
-Added a RESET instruction which simply resets the PC (start at the top) and clears the long time sensors.\
-Now, when a musical note is displayed, it counts as sound to the soundmaker and its neighbors. \
-Added a NEW_SOUND energy with a corresponding flag in the Biolume. If the Biolume was not hearing a sound and suddenly does hear a sound, it gets a greater reward than if it was already hearing a sound. \
\
8/9/11 @ 14:25 DC\
Targets: Biolume, Simulator\
-Added capabilities for handling ON_YOUR_OWN and SPLIT_ENERGY replication options. Set SPLIT_ENERGY as the default. \
\
8/8/11 @ 05:12 DC\
Targets: Instruction, Biolume, Simulator\
-Added a new set of sensor flags. Now there are ShortTerm (was the sensor triggered in the last step?) and LongTerm (was the sensor triggered within the last cycle?). The instructions act on the LongTerm sensors while energy is accrued according to the ShortTerm sensors.\
-CO2 is now correctly accrued, whether the visitor is moving or not. \
-Global Pressures GUI has been changed. Depending on intuitiveness, some changes might have to be made.\
\
8/7/11 @ 22:46 DC\
Targets: Biolume, Simulator, BiolumeStepThread, media file\
-First of all, the media file has had a massive overhaul, so be sure to copy the whole thing over (replace your old file). \
-Reproduction has a new 'look'. \
-Control buttons have been added for PLAY, PAUSE, SPEEDUP and SPEEDDOWN. \
-A random visitor icon is selected in each run. A magnifying glass appears if the system is paused. \
-Created a makeViable function which checks whether the Biolume is viable, and if not, makes it so. This is applied to the randomly generated initial population, as well as every reproduction instance. }