{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10280\viewh9680\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 FINAL FEATURE LIST (ends Monday)\
> Code Cleansing\
	> Agree on standards ?????\
	> Create a config file where we'll shove off all constants\
 	> Kill all the magic numbers\
 	> Properly document every method/variable\
 	> Modularize as appropriate\
> Stats: \
 	> Output file with count of instructions executed.\
 	> Births\'85 LED switches\'85 messages sent\'85 i guess they're all implicit in instructions\
 	> Output touches, motions, human sounds, Biolume sounds, CO2 counts.\
\
\
FUTURE POSSIBILITIES: \
> Move from grids to graphs. \
> Add sounds, actual midi files. \
> Change the general look of the Biolumes in the simulator. \
> There are many possibilities for IF_ENERGY instructions: IF_NO_ENERGY, IF_0-25, IF_25-50, IF_50-75, IF_75-100, IF_100, etc\'85 \
\
\
PHYSICAL MODEL DIFFERENCES: \
> Instead of having repro wheels, births will be announced with a burst of white light on the offspring unit which will decay to the Biolume's actual display. \
> Brightness can be removed from the evolutionary equation and simply used to represent the energy level of the Biolumes. \
\
DONE:\
\
- Evolutionary Pressures\
   \uc0\u10003  Non-viable Biolumes (no REPROs in the genome) are not allowed to exist.\
   \uc0\u10003  DEENERGIZE button was added which clears all energies from the system. Mostly for debugging purposes. \
   \uc0\u10003  A switch between global and interactive pressures will cause energies accrued by the previous method to be cleared out first. \
   \uc0\u10003  Implement global pressures. \
      --A target color for each LED will be chosen by the user. \
      --Each global pressure acts independently. \
      --The amount of energy awarded to each Biolume will be directly proportional to how close the displayed color is to the target (by Euclidean distance). \
      --LEDs that are turned OFF will receive no reward.\
      --Sensory inputs are ignored. \
   \uc0\u10003  Implement interactive pressures based off Biolume sensors. \
      --Detect a visitor's touch (mouse click on the unit). \
      --Detect a visitor's movement (mouse movement on the unit). \
      --Detect a new sound. A Biolume is rewarded if it did not detect any sound in the last step but does detect one now. A Biolume can detect a sound made from a neighboring Biolume, or generated by a visitor (mouse movement) on itself or a neighbor. \
      --Detect a visitor's CO2 (mouse presence on the unit). Neighbors and their neighbors are rewarded. \
      --Energy is hereditary in this mode. A Biolume passes on half its energy to its offspring at reproduction. \
\
- Visualization\
   \uc0\u10003  A battery-like meter will display the Biolume's energy level.\
   \uc0\u10003  A letter (p or c) allow the user to distinguish between parent and child during reproduction.\
   \uc0\u10003  The cursor transforms into a random museum visitor when in the Biolume arena.\
   \uc0\u10003  When paused, clicking on a Biolume will display its information.\
   \uc0\u10003  PLAY/PAUSE, SPEEDDOWN, SPEEDUP, RESTART buttons. \
\
- Instructions\
   \uc0\u10003  Flow control: NOP, LABEL, JUMP\
   \uc0\u10003  Messaging: BUFFER_SET/GET_DATA, MESSAGE_SEND/RETRIEVE\
   \uc0\u10003  Actions: REPRODUCE, LED0/1_ON/OFF/TOGGLE, SPEAKER_ON/OFF\
   \uc0\u10003  Conditionals: IF_TOUCH, IF_MOTION, IF_SOUND, IF_CO2, IF_LO_ENERGY, IF_HI_ENERGY, IF_N_TOUCH, IF_N_MOTION, IF_N_SOUND, IF_N_CO2\
\
- Stats}